ate some food now we're back at it now I
need to refresh my memory as to where I
actually was
what was going on
okay we had just sorted the equations
before constructing the system
let me cut my nails
and get some more water and then
foreign
okay and the reason why we wanted to
sort the equations was because we need
to make sure that
when we're constructing the a hash map
which
which is a map
that refers
vertices
or V nodes with their derivative V nodes
and the problem is that we need to make
sure that those node indices are correct
and currently the function that we use
to make those
the amap
doesn't actually
construct it
from the graph itself
which we could do
and alternatively what I was thinking is
that maybe if they're sorted
oh no yeah so what I was thinking is
that
um
I think that this would be this would
not work
but what I was imagining
is Maybe
if
if when I constru if I change the
Constructor or the uh
the build by apartheid graph function
if I insert all of the equation nodes
first and then all of the sorted vertex
nodes
then presumably I could just offset it
and I could just
I don't think that would be bad but
some you know some part of me thinks
that that would be bad
but I don't know why
okay so let's build our Electric
Boogaloo function
and so the first thing we do is we
and we want this actually to be a
stable on graph
create a new stable with estimated
capacity
huh
you size U size
is there a type Max function
foreign
I mean I'm not gonna get hung up on this
uh
no but does that
allocate the whole thing
I don't think I want to do that
um
foreign
okay cool
um
so
uh
oh
I don't know why that's not a thing
I'm sure that
Russ they really care about correctness
so
um so then we for
uh eek
in
oh yeah we want to copy over this thing
too
do we want to maintain
an index map too so instead of
so instead of just a hash
set
what if we did
uh
what would it be it would be no no no
this is fine
whatever
why did I think this was broken again
for one unaryop is just not handled
I forgot there was something here that
was like super sus
oh no I think it's in a create the
association
I never know how to organize
Okay so
and when you collect a VEC it doesn't
actually
so these are going to be
RV nodes and then the these are
D nodes
hmm
oh that's so nice actually does that
work is that what you do
oh that's so nice cool
you just leave that at the bottom and
then you do what you need to do
okay so we want to do
we want to do
G
foreign
I think I can actually just do this
okay cool
um
okay and then
[Music]
um
no so we should assume
right so we can do
uh
oh this is the
foreign
mode not gonna lie
I wish I could
oh nice
what
okay
um what was I doing
oh yeah I'm testing the new uh
uh
nice okay
okay what is it you do okay let me
actually
uh
how do I close this thing
okay uh
you do config
test config okay so let me just write it
big tests
test
mod tests
what is super mean
um
foreign
so what did we just do we
now now
a little project graph has and
what is the number of edges there it
doesn't matter
um
but now what we need to do
is we need to build
the a Association
and so
now his label is called to string
but I don't feel nothing
[Music]
so do I want to build a just from the
graph because it seems like that's what
I'm trying to do but
in reality
but in the
in the paper
foreign
[Music]
I mean the way that
the equations are structured I could be
I could get
these
foreign
in a lot of ways it really makes sense
for me to have my own bipartite graph
type
because it's just so annoying to keep
track of this
okay but we have a set
okay so if we just said that these were
foreign
let me sit with it for a little bit
how does it get used it gets used by
being indexed but
I'm glad that we're here we at least got
to this we built the correct bipartite
graph
I would like to print that out actually
no it's wrong
foreign
[Music]
correctly
because
this code is wrong
oh that's definitely wrong
no no extract variables is wrong
is that true
x dot is only an F1
that's w
seems to okay
this is
equation three
uh
I don't know how to resolve that
foreign
[Music]
but interestingly in this one
X is not incident oh X is incident never
mind yeah so we want to stop recursing
if you hit the dur
let's add an assert here that
okay but then if we do this
okay that might be oh it kind of looks
like the same hold on I would count to
Edge count
12.
I don't want to count that
um
okay
is that right
yeah
why
person two
I think that's right you stop recursing
if you hit a dirt or a bar
I'll sit there and count these things
out
one two
uh this is such a pain in the ass
one two three four five six
wait one two three four five six seven
eight nine ten eleven twelve nice
[Music]
okay
foreign
cool so I'm starting to understand my
code too so I'm glad that I was able to
make that change because it does seem
like this is correct
I'm Gonna Change binary app to bin up
going further you up
and
Bop
now this is fine
okay so now we need to constrict a
so we should be able to
oh that's so useful
that is so useful dude
uh
foreign
oh
but what we want to do is
for every vertex
foreign
yeah naively we'll make it run in N
squared because I don't really care
about performance at this point
but so for every vertex we look at every
other vertex
and we say
or yeah okay we match on the
vertex weight
so does indexing give me the weight
let's see
wait why is it a string
no bruh
bruh oh
um
yeah so in the dirt case
we're assuming order one so the dur case
we don't do anything but if you find
yeah okay so fine so match VAR
what
I'm certain that in here
match expert VAR
string
expected fat Arrow
I have a
pointer to boxed enum and I want to
match on the enum
how to do
yeah Didn't I do that
foreign
there we go
oh wait
no now we wanna
oh uh
we wanna
say x to
four
no we want their node indices though
it was right along it was smarter than
me
foreign
okay so this is
hand written though I mean
clearly not good code
but let's
we don't need the E nodes we just need
the V nodes
and we don't need the edge indices
either
okay
let a equal
but wait build a
built it from the graph which
which may turn out to be
which may turn out to be totally wrong
foreign
that myself
despite it being awful awful awful code
I should probably zoom in a little bit
for the Stream
anyone's watching anyways
no but it's worth it okay
foreign
dude match is sweet I love math
[Music]
myself
now with this map it should be easy to
um
foreign
[Music]
oh wait
nice
[Music]
but
it's a long road to get to what I
actually want to do which is simulate
circuits
okay
let's go back to the paper
so now I want to implement this thing
all right so I'm going to print out
those things
foreign
this dude's a badass man
oh nice
is that is that if
that's cool
differential and algebraic equations are
composed I'm going to show you a
that oh and that can also solve the
index one
Dae form it can also solve an index to 2
in the hessenberg form so there's more
options for solvers that are out there
but let's say we just want to solve it
in index three four so I'm going to show
you first of all the index three form
and then let's go back and do the index
0 for the ode form as well okay so I'm
just going to type this out or have
notepad type this out for me okay so
here I have the model you can see the
equation this is our x squared plus y
squared equals x squared and then we
have our other equations there
relates the velocity of the W and okay
directions you can see some of those
no okay so there are the five
differential equations that relates
these different variables to each other
and then we also have some supporting
variables as well all right so let's go
and solve this one I just want to show
this one to you I'll do the index three
one first of all
solver so you don't need to uh be able
to transform it into an ode form or an
index one Dae form it solves it directly
as an index 3 differential and algebraic
equation problem now you can see here
there's no numerical drift position X
and Y those are stable from cycle to
cycle and it's overall the solution
looks good let's go do our next one now
which is going to be the index of zero
da all right so I'm gonna have
go ahead and close this one
close this one I'm using notepad plus
plus to do some ghost typing for me
animate this a little bit
faster a little bit too fast for
explaining the code but essentially I'm
just creating the gecko model you can
solve this problem with almost any poly
integrator you'll see that all of these
now are in this differential equation
formula where all of okay all of them
are on this left-hand side of the
equation you can set up an OD solver
pretty easily to solve this
oh
dude this is sweet
and let's go and simulate it though and
just see the results of this
show is with ideally and edit and run it
and you'll see some examples here of
that numerical drift that I was talking
about so here on the top part you can
see the Y value how it's trending down
over time you can also see the Lambda
value at the very bottom how that one is
also trending down over time so it's
just this numerical drift because we've
had to differentiate it three times to
get back to the ordinary differential
equation form
so one of the other advantages of
solving this with the simultaneous
method to be able to solve these higher
index forms is that you don't
necessarily need to rearrange the
equations to get them back into a
particular form you can solve it with
the ones that are most natural to write
like straight out of a textbook for
example you don't need to make a lot of
rearrangement you'll notice this
especially in situations where you have
something like a distillation column
okay you'll see that those are going to
traditionally be something like at least
an index one or an index two eae I've
seen a lot of people that have to
rearrange okay the
equations to get them into the index one
form it takes a lot of rearrangement to
be able to simulate uh this distillation
column and get into that particular form
if you just solve it directly as an
index 2 or index three problem then you
can focus on the equations you don't
have to focus so much on rearranging the
equations to fit in a particular solver
they can only handle certain forms so
the other nice thing about this too is I
wrote it out at the beginning
you know this way for my differential
equations and then 0 equals T of X the
other nice thing is you don't even have
to have this in the semi-explicit form
like that you can have everything on one
side of the equation or the other so
it's actually more like uh this I've
just put in this box you don't even have
to have the differential terms separated
from the other you can solve them all
simultaneously in this combined method
okay so I'll just show you the source
code for this this is if you want to try
this yourself or other problems it's
here under this pendulum Motion in the
documentation for high index Dae
Solutions if you just search for it also
put this link here in the video
description and it has just an
explanation of the simple problem with
the pendulum the index 0 and index three
forms for the equations and then the
source code here for each of those so
you can see index 0 index one
index 2 code and then finally the index
three EA code if you want a little bit
more information this is also an article
on initialization
just with the index 0 if you get it back
to the ode form
then you might have some medical issues
also there are many solvers that can
solve an index one form many assaulters
in python or Matlab can solve that
ode15s is a good example of The Da
solver in Matlab Okay so
and that can also solve the index one
the 84. it can also solve an index 2 and
a hessenberg form so there's a couple
options for solvers about that but let's
say we just want to solve it in index
three four I'm going to show you first
of all the index three form and then
let's go back and do the index uh zero
form the ode form as well okay I'm just
going to type this out or have notepad
type this out for me okay so here I have
the model you can see the equation this
is our F squared plus y squared equals F
squared and then we have our other
equations there that relates the
velocity of the W and okay in the v the
X and Y directions you can see some of
those okay we do have the horizontal
wire there as well okay so there are the
five differential equations that relate
these different variables to each other
and then we also have some supporting
variables as well all right so let's go
and solve this one I just want to show
this one to you I'll do the index three
one first of all
and the way that it does is it uses
orthogonal collocation on Final elements
it solves it
foreign
collocation on finite elements in
particular how to use this to solve
differential equations so for example if
I have DX DT
equals f of x that's a perhaps a
non-linear differential equation and if
you remember just first of all the
discretization method you may be
familiar with is Euler's method
and in Euler's method we have two points
our initial condition that we know and
then our final condition which is X1 and
we just do a finite difference
approximation for our derivative so DX
DT equals approximate Applied Physics
monitor
there
X1 minus X naught divided by the depth
time okay there's the change in time
right there and from this we can solve
the differential equation by just
putting our right hand side of the
equation back there and then have X1
equals delta T times f of x plus X
naught so that's how we determine x one
this is probably the most simple
discretization method called boilers and
uh we can also do a you know this would
be you know one of the simplest step
okay that's just with two notes now
another way to do this is through a
pythagore location finite element and
what we're doing is we have higher order
or more accurate methods and we have
more points so let's just go up to three
where you have X naught X1 and X2 and
then we use a polynomial to fit this so
I'm going to just have a polynomial
which is X of T equals a plus and then
you have to have the same number of
order of polynomial as you do points
okay so there's my X of T and then if I
have these three points I'm going to
essentially use this polynomial to come
up with the derivatives so if I have
derivatives X1 I can just take my DX 1
DT is going to be equal to and I take
the derivative of that which is going to
be B plus 2 ct okay and that would
become my derivative approximation that
I would use right here and solve the
equation right here D X 1 DT equals F of
X1 and then I have another one right
here that I need to solve which is D of
X2 DT equals F of X2 okay so I have
essentially four variables and four
unknowns I have the X1 DT I have X1 I
have the X2 DT and I have X2 okay so I
have this equation that's equation
number one here's equation number two
and then I had equation number three and
then I would have equation okay number
four is well but we're going to
rearrange this a little bit so that we
can not have these higher order
polynomials for um so we're gonna go
through the derivation of how to
implement this more efficiently
essentially what we're doing is instead
of the linear approximation the Euler's
method gives us we're going to do some
higher order methods to be able to
approximate our solution we're gonna be
more accurate
okay so um I'll just go ahead and start
I'm going to start with a fourth order
okay let's just say I had X of T equals
a plus b t plus uh b t plus c times t
squared plus d times t to the third and
the points I have are X naught X One X
two and X3 so there are my points right
there then I might try to obtain a
solution to okay so um the very first
thing that I'll need to do is go ahead
and just like I did with uh you know
these four variables four equations
right here I'm gonna go ahead and put
this into a matrix form and uh what I'm
going to do is go ahead and just do X
One Dot that's the derivative of x x 2
dot X3 dot okay equals an M Matrix and
you'll see where this comes in in just a
little bit I'll have X1 X2 and X3 and
then also track the initial condition
okay so I'm going to put it in this form
right here and then I take this
polynomial right here and take the
derivative okay for each one and so I'll
have X1 dot equals B plus two c t plus
three d t squared okay and that's gonna
be applying one and then I have the next
one which is B plus two c t two plus
three d t two squared and then the final
one
and just finishing that off okay and
then I'm going to substitute this these
right in there
and also going to substitute these right
in here because I know that X1 okay no
it's no longer function I'm going to
evaluate that at a particular Point okay
so X of T1 okay which is going to be X1
is going to be equal to and then that's
just going to be a plus b t 1 plus c t 1
squared plus d t 1 cubed again I do that
for all of them and then we'll
substitute those in and then we come up
with something that can factor out I'm
going to I want to skip a step here so
let me just do a kind of painfully slow
a lot of detail here let's just go ahead
and write this all out okay I'm going to
do B okay the very first one plus three
D T 1 squared B plus two c t two plus
three D T 2 squared plus b plus two c t
three plus three dt3 squared okay and
that's going to be on the left hand side
and then I'm going to have this map this
m Matrix right there and then I want to
have my
other points that are going to be in
there this one is going to be um you
know the M Matrix which is and then
multiplied by um okay so let's just do
this I'm going to do uh write this out
that's going to be a plus b t 1 plus c t
1 squared plus d t cubed okay A plus b t
two plus c t Okay so this is the this is
kind of the point where a lot of um you
know a lot of students get confused we
can factor out a b c and d okay two plus
three T pass three divide T1
is going to be equal to that one
okay um so just like I have two matrices
if I had a matrix a times x
plus b times x and I'll do an equal sign
there then I would know that A and B
matrices aren't the same okay so I have
uh just these two left-hand sides that
I'm going to equate to each other and
then from that I can get the M Matrix
okay so now I have yeah okay
so now I just arrived my M Matrix and
that M Matrix reverse so now I just
derived my M Matrix and that M Matrix
goes right in here to relate our the
ribbonation station because if we have
time okay and that goes from zero if we
have a different that if we have um you
know if we have a different amount of
time that we can go to we're going to
put a final time right here okay and
that goes from zero to final time now
instead of zero to one so what we're
going to do now is go ahead and just
take the inverse okay the inverse of the
M Matrix and that is going to be equal
to n okay so where n and just rewrite
this a little bit differently I'm going
to have t n times n
and x1.x2 Dot and X3 dot equals X1 X2
and X3 minus X naught for all of those
okay so we're going to have this and the
nice thing about this is if TN goes to
zero if this time steps to come very
very small uh we have to approaches zero
then I just have equality constraints so
basically just say um you know at my X1
equals x naught my X2 equals x naught
and my X3 equals x naught if
um t n goes to zero or if you have it
the other way if you have it on the
right hand side this T and goes to zero
out of the term that goes to Infinity so
it doesn't work as well for you know the
solvers that um you know very small time
steps could have very large uh you have
basically a very large term there to get
a treasol okay so we put it in this form
and then these n matrices have then
derived for you know two up to six um in
the AP minor paper but you know you can
go higher order as well what I typically
do though like if I need more accuracy I
don't have a higher order method I just
have more segments so for example let's
say I had uh you know these four points
the one that we just derived then I just
put another one that attaches
do it okay and I make these two equal
and I have two fourth order polynomials
approximate these different segments and
then as I need more time steps I can
just add more uh fourth order
polynomials as I go out okay so you can
add also more time steps there each
approximated by a polynomial if you want
to okay so that's the that's the
derivation let's just do a a quick
example okay so there's an example a
solution by orthogonal collocation so if
you come to uh you know this web address
here you'll see uh you know just a very
uh an introductory problem right there
and then you have an exercise number one
with the solution there and the source
code okay so you can look at the python
source code right there you see your and
matrices that are already typed in there
for you
um and okay and so it sets it up you got
the different time points one thing I
forgot to mention is these are not
evenly spaced time points but those come
from uh this lobato uh quadrature that
we're going to use to give us the
optimal spacing okay between these time
points um and so that's why it's called
orthogonal these orthogonal polynomials
this orthogonal caucasian on finite
elements okay so that's the derivation
uh you know for a fourth order I also
showed you how to do it for a uh you
know basically a first order and uh you
know there's one that was like the
Euler's method
um basically just a linear okay the one
that you're probably familiar with but
you can go with higher order methods as
well and uh basically at the end of the
day what we're doing is we're taking uh
something that looks like this
okay and have we had some explicit form
and We're translating that into another
function that's just a function of
algebraic variables and the reason why
we need to do that is because we need to
solve this with nonlinear optimizers so
for example minimize J of X changing X
values subject to uh differential uh you
got a differential equation here
um
or you can have uh and what we're going
to do is we're going to translate this
into something that non-linear
optimizers can handle okay so it cannot
how many optimizers don't want to do a
different equation so we're essentially
discretizing them in order to get
something that is an algebraic
representation okay so additional
information on this if you need uh more
help on this there are some references
down below here's the one
under the AP monitor uh paper okay you
can go to science direct or you can go
oh
oh it's looks kind of an incognito oops
I don't know if that's a b or not
foreign
that's a super interesting looking bee
it doesn't really look like a bee
[Music]
foreign
that's crazy I didn't know that there
was another way to do this you can just
directly solve
thank you
bro this guy got a forehead
good for him man
brain
foreign
ah
a
wow nobody uses this thing but it's
actually kind of badass
foreign
oh
my God
foreign
[Music]
that's really cool
foreign
in the worst case they're simple higher
index Dae systems with well-defined and
stable solutions for which the backward
Euler method and other multi-step method
and arcade methods are unstable or not
even applicable
what is this in Fortran
nice
yep bro and they always do it as a
single massive Fortran file it's crazy
yeah the Fortran people are
okay well I feel like
I've sort of gone down a rabbit hole of
like other ways to solve days but the
easiest and most
simple way for me to conceptualize this
is to just put it in a form that
sundials can handle and then give it to
sundials
compile it and then give it the Sunday
together
foreign
thank you
[Music]
foreign
thank you
[Music]
did those dishes
all right
dude what a lovely day
just coding bro just getting it in
okay
all right so now what we want to do
ice water
delicious
thank you
oh this is like such a good review
I don't really understand
this thing of like why index one daes
are fine
but
whatever
for higher index systems an index
reduction is necessary to get a solution
this index reduction can be performed by
giving appropriate options at ND solve
ND cells uses symbolic techniques to do
index reduction this means that if your
deu system is in the form of f of
TX X Prime equal to zero
where ndsoft cannot see how the
components of X interact and compute
civil derivatives the index reduction
cannot be done
and for this reason ndsoft does not do
index reduction by default right okay
pendulum is the classic example
I'm glad that I picked pendulum
if I saw pendulum I'll be really happy
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
go back out in a bit
okay index reduction algorithms ND solve
has two algorithms for doing index
reduction the panteleades algorithm and
structural Matrix method both of these
methods use the symbolic form of the
equations to determine which equations
to differentiate and then use symbolic
differentiation
to get the differentiated system both
methods make use the concept of
structural incidence in the equations in
particular if variable VJ appears in the
equation e i then VJ is termed incident
in EI the structural incidence Matrix is
the Matrix with elements m i j equal to
one if v j is incident in EI and
otherwise zero
a Dae system has structural index one
if the structural incidence Matrix can
be reordered so that there are ones
along the diagonal
the existence of such a reordering means
that there is a matching between
equations and variables such that there
is one equation for every variable
the panther leads algorithm works with a
graph based on the incidence that can be
very efficient even for extremely lower
systems note that the structural index
may be smaller than the actual index of
the system and the real system terms
that are structurally present may vanish
along with some solutions
or the Jacobian matrix may be singular
the structural Matrix method tries to
take into account the possibility of
singularities in the Jacobian and will
do a better job of index reduction for
some systems but at the cost of Greater
computational expense
okay
what is that awesome
oh
my God
[Music]
so sick
thank you
foreign
s with respect to the derivative
variables can be arranged to avoid zeros
on the
the structural incidence with respect to
the derivative variables
can be arranged to avoid zeros in the
diagonal and the system is index zero
so for the case above
yeah so I think that that's fine
this is totally fine
because with respect to the differential
variables there's no zeros on the
diagonal there's no way to
okay
but
see okay yeah I remember reading that
and I didn't understand why the tension
is one of the highest ordered
derivatives
that is still a question that doesn't
really make sense to me
get the structural incidence Matrix with
the constrained pendulum system with
respect to the highest order derivatives
that appear
foreign
the method proposed by Panther leads
spent the leaders is a graph theoretical
method that was originally proposed for
finding consistent initialization of
daes it works with a bipartite graph of
dependent variables and equations and
when the algorithm can find a traversal
of the graph then the system has been
reduced to an index at most one a
traversal in this sense effectively
means an ordering of variables and
equations so that the graphs incidence
Matrix has no zeros on the diagonal
when the bipartite graph does not have a
complete traversal the algorithm
effectively augments the path
by differentiating equations introducing
new variables derivatives of previous
variables in the process
unless the original system is
structurally singular
the algorithm will terminate with a
traversal
generally the algorithm does only the
difference differentiations needed to
get the traversal but since it's a
greedy algorithm it is not always the
minimal number
it is beyond the scope of this
documentation to describe the algorithm
in detail the implementation built into
the Wolfram language follows the
algorithm pretty closely it uses graph
to efficiently implement the graph
computations and symbolically
differentiations differentiates the
equation with d when differentiation is
called for
when there's a traversal of the system
it is possible to find an ordering of
the variables and equations
such that the incidence Matrix
is in Block lower triangular form
The BLT form is used in setting up the
dummy derivative method for maintaining
constraints and also
in the state space-time integration
method
the description of the BLT ordering
bacon lettuce tomato bro
let's crazy
this is crazy bro The BLT ordering dude
yo I'll be ordering the BLT ordering all
the time
[Music]
the resulting system has index one since
Lambda still appears as an algebraic
variable and does not contain a
derivative in the differentiated system
differentiating the system one more time
will provide a differential system for
Lambda therefore the index of the
original system is indeed
the rate
as a first approach the system will with
the twice differentiated equation can be
solved directly
zero differential order I see
I think I call that index differential
index
because when I print out
foreign
I don't know what this does
to model the original dynamics of the
system with the new system additional
equations must be satisfied however
including additional equations leads to
more equations than unknowns to address
this issue the method of
demi-derivatives is used
so that the index reduced system becomes
balanced the panteleades algorithm is
efficient because it can use graph
algorithms with well controlled
complexity for even very large problems
however since it is solely based on
incidents there can be issues with
systems that lead to jacobians that are
singular
the structural Matrix method may be able
to resolve such cases but may have
larger computational complexity for
large systems
okay
the structural Matrix algorithm is an
alternative to the panther leads
algorithm
the structural Matrix method follows
from the work of Unger and chaohari
the graph-based algorithms such as the
panty leads are going to rely on
traversals to perform index reduction
however they don't account for the fact
that sometimes
there may be variable cancellations in a
particular system
I think the
I think the thing is done
foreign
Matrix method follows from the work
this leads to an out the algorithm
underestimating the index of the system
if a DA is not
been correctly reduced to an index 0 or
1 System then the numerical integration
May Fail or produce an incorrect result
ooh
foreign
the second differentiation must be done
for the second equation
the above system has non-singlead
Jacobian for the derivatives the above
system now correctly
is now correctly index 0 and a system of
Odes can be formed from it
the actual system is index two
so it seems like we actually have to
implement the structural Matrix method
too
okay
one
more
The Matrix above contains a star as some
of its entries the Stars uses a
placeholder indicating that the
variables in that equation
are present in the equation in a
non-linear fashion notice that for the
second equation
the terms Lambda and X appear as
products therefore
the first and last are marked with the
star
no that's cool huh
once the matrices are constructed the
objective is to try and convert the
system of daes into a system of Odes
in order to do that
the rank of the Matrix JD must be full
to achieve this the equations that need
to be differentiated are first
identified in this case it is the last
equation after differentiation
the structural matrices are
okay
so
uh
oh
um
foreign
as usual bro
why is it always so good
foreign
I still don't know the answer like if
someone asked me
why can't you solve algebraic equations
in a normal ode solver you don't really
know what to say
or even a d solver of higher index
it uses law pack
linear algebra is really beautiful man
I mean I wish I was better at linear
algebra but like
symmetric matrices have real eigenvalues
kind of cool bro
okay
foreign
[Music]
that's interesting to know about this
other method
stop ball
okay uh where are we
wow
trying so hard
to get over you
want to go back
[Music]
foreign
decent
okay
uh I think so so then after that
foreign
I think it's drift right
[Music]
logarithm
lager Rhythm the purpose of the dummy
derivative method is to introduce
algebraic variables so that the combined
system of original equations and
equations that have been differentiated
for index reduction is not over
determined
consider the pendulum again
is there a way to see which method is
picked
click the copy is so satisfying dude
note for the that for this example the
constraint method was included for
emphasis and is not needed
since trying to use dummy derivatives is
the default
oh here we go
foreign
oh wow
that makes sense
I mean so you can solve for
okay so there's some method of probably
finding all sets of dummy derivatives
and then you just look at those and see
for what values they be the
system
incidence Matrix becomes zero
wow this is a big ass problem
[Music]
s
okay this is all starting to make a lot
of sense
so
the alternative to using dummy
derivatives is to reduce the index to
zero
okay
okay all right so
all right so you take a Dae
there's a I think there's a isn't there
that sweet
picture
yeah okay all right
that makes sense
okay
but it does seem like you need a
constraint method
so for days
you need
one
index reduction method
and two constraint method
then you can simulate
[Music]
foreign
okay
oh geez
dude Wolfram is just the best system
because it's symbolic first bruh it's
just clearly the right way to do things
man
crazy to debug but like
damn is it beautiful just so many
problems go away
um
okay well let's go back and
[Music]
foreign
yes
okay
foreign
all right come on it's it's time to
it's time to get back to work
do this work bro
so where are we at we just built a
and now we want to do step 3B which is
remove
all
vertices
okay so I'm going to clone the
all right
let's make sure that the um
they're not B sorry a
well
yeah so
that's it right
but is there something else we need to
update
we need to update V node
foreign
it's so good it makes coding so easy
dude
um
and so we need to do a few nodes that
remove okay right
okay
[Music]
foreign
a
wait no it doesn't get mutated so we're
fine
Like a G6 Like a G6
no what
what are you talking about
oh
yeah this needs to be mutable
wait
oh wait but if it mutates it then I
don't need to return anything
I think I could just return nothing
what did it say
okay yeah so yeah so
we're doing the right thing by not
doing two owned
oh yeah
nice so this one has none
I'm pretty sure that's right on
four five six
okay so 3B seems to do what I need
all nodes
so
that means we just clear it all right
yes if I have a mutable reference how do
I pass a shared reference to it
if Foo has a mutable graph to bardiff
map and cause
bar
which only needs a shared ref what to do
oh yeah we can take it give it a pointer
trying so hard to
yellow
mm-hmm
wait but I don't want to give it the
right to mutate
oh wait hold on if I did like
let food equal
s yeah not immutable okay
that makes sense buddy that makes lots
of sense don't you know
okay
can I mutate immutable G
what
bro what are you talking about
all right that's cool
now did I call it augment path
does this modify the graph at all
no I don't think this modifies the graph
at all so what we can do is we can just
give it a pointer to G type
and I think that's fine
so we're going to do that right
the argument path mutate any of its
no because it doesn't change the graph
so if it doesn't change the graph it
doesn't change B nodes e nodes or G
so that's all good
okay
if path found
break else
but you break or do you return
no I think you
[Music]
come on
foreign
mm-hmm
Okay so
foreign
[Music]
stuff
okay
um it's I'm not doing it because I'm
scared that it's wrong all right so uh
[Music]
this ends up being pretty clean when you
don't have to use maps though
okay fine let me just do it for every
colored v-node
so
can I just do mute
foreign
v-node okay so what does that mean for
every colored B node
you would take V nodes
is it a hashtag it's a hash set right
I think I can do this right
oh nice
foreign
M plus equals one
create
new
so you need to add a new node
you need to add a new node but what do
you call it
foreign
oh that's so useful
ly whenever we modify
the graph
like here
do we also need to modify
num variables
I don't know about that
my guess is you definitely do wait but
it doesn't actually
no this does remove nodes
foreign
I think breaking is correct
[Applause]
oh is that like super add node Returns
the node index
okay so that's that's actually all we
gotta do
this bad boy right here
okay then for every colored e node
all right so here we add a new equation
so none equations
what is the equation that oh here I
actually need to put in the is that
right I think I I would
I'm not actually certain if that's true
foreign
please just do it
[Music]
this equation should have
foreign
but which one
okay
well I don't actually understand why you
need to add new variable nodes
at this point for every colored v-node
why
foreign
okay
what is this
foreign
[Music]
okay
foreign
[Music]
yeah I don't know what the hell that
part means
create edges from enode and
to all V nodes
J
V nodes J and AJ
such that edge LJ exists what the hell
is L bro
foreign
I feel like I had this yesterday
so all this is saying is that
what is J bro
or what is l
oh my god dude I am so
bro I'm literally so dumb
L is the new
enode
right right okay such that from the new
e node
okay okay okay I'm starting to get this
so
okay so what this is telling me
is that
for all of the colored enodes
represent
equations that need to be differentiated
so you you increment the number of
equations you create a new equation node
then you create edges
from this new node
to all
so okay so in this set of
I don't really get this
like isn't all V nodes
I'm guessing what he's trying to say is
that
I think he means that if you have like
the x squared plus y squared minus L
squared expression you differentiate it
so you get 2 x dot X
plus two y Dot
y
oh wait I think we want to do
[Music]
foreign
oh I get it bro I get it okay
yeah so it's saying
if
it's saying if
yeah it isn't clear what the condition
is
foreign
this part is
sushi
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
right now
foreign
that should be in the order in which it
was appended so J should be the second
one
the thing
what is it called
private bruh what
what is the point
literally what is the point
what message are there on this thing
Edge reference
I I don't really understand why they
always do this uh
this is so crazy
oh wait hold on
it's the same type dude what
this edges type is like bogus dude
wait
no but those see those aren't Pub dudes
I guess I could collect it right
is that what I'm supposed to do
dot hitter dot collects
no why bro
oh it only implemented into editor I
guess
oh wait
oh okay so stinky bruh
okay good neighbors
is it gonna be the same story though
that's the question
no it implements iterator so I should be
able to do
T iter oh what
foreign
that's that's fine with me
so these are all of so that means that
for n in
uh
foreign
[Music]
do do
I mean I think I think we did it this so
now we have the nodes
we have the no we have all the
JS so these are the J's
so what we want to do is g to add edge
foreign
[Music]
equations is going to be
foreign
interesting this is an augment path
frick
oh yeah hold on
foreign
but you can't give it as you can't
give it a zero
foreign
there's just so many things I could eat
wrong
okay so the question here is are we
guaranteed that a sign
[Music]
foreign
thank you
[Music]
oh you just can't yeah okay yeah that's
cool
foreign
all right maybe I'm giving up for right
now let me come back on but like
God
the problem is I just don't really
understand the algorithm
foreign
J happen
[Music]
so I think it did find the four
good ones and there were the four later
ones but then we panic
and we actually get to the
okay